# Alex Nesterov CS50 Final Project (CS50 Discord Stats)
Disclaimer: started CS50 course on 17 April 2020, finished on 16 May 2020. (It took me 1 month to compelete the course, while having a bit of regular job and taking a rest now and then).
My FB: [link](https://www.facebook.com/lehanest95)

Core features of project:
  - Log In / Register / Change Password + pass hash, checks, etc.
  - Forms submission to write to research database
  - Results of research database are "live" and displayed on /statistics page
  - Statistics page also has static images of chart generated by Power BI
  - Easter Egg - GOD MODE :-)
  - All the data tables are stored in the databse

Stack used for the project:
  - Flask
  - Python
  - Pandas
  - JavaScript (for Charts in statistics)
  - CSS
  - HTML
  - SQL (SQLITE)
  - Excel to form extra charts from Discord Data
  - Power BI

So, basically it's a questionnaire with "stats" functionality and GOD MODE 😂

### Discord stats explained

I had the hypothesis that the channel in which student first posts a message - is the one which student first experienced real troubles solving it.
Therefore I did some Excel + Power BI to generate charts presented at /statistics page.

I used open-source tool [DiscordChatExporter](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/DiscordChatExporter) to get multiple CSVs from the official CS50 Discord channel. I then wrote Python code "merge_csv.py" to merge CSVs together and form new file "merged.csv" using Pandas. Then this CSV was imported to SQLITE database for ease of queries and speed.

### GET data from Discord CS50
You can use [DiscordChatExporter](https://github.com/Tyrrrz/DiscordChatExporter) to get multiple CSVs from the official CS50 Discord channel.

You can then run "merge_csv.py" file to convert it to merged CSV of all files and create database in which it's gonna be automatically imported.

```sh
python merge_csv.py
```
### How to run the Web App in CS50 IDE
Make sure you computer/server/environment has all required modelus listed in "requirements.txt" (IDEs like PyCharm may do it automatically for you).
If you run it from CS50 IDE - it has everything installed and works right away.

If you want to run it from your CS50 IDE, do this:
Make sure you are in correct directory
```sh
cd
git clone https://github.com/lehanest95/cs50_final_project.git
cd cs50_final_project
flask run
```


### How to run the Web App elsewhere
Make sure you are in correct directory
```sh
git clone https://github.com/lehanest95/cs50_final_project.git
cd cs50_final_project
```
Run the App =)
```sh
flask run
```

If you environment gives error, try this:
```sh
FLASK_APP=app.py
flask run
```


